## Affordance

Gibson (1977, 1979) coined the term “affordance” to describe what the environment “offers the individual, what it provides or furnishes, either for good or ill” .Affordances can be viewed as animal-relative properties of the environment. They correspond to the action possibilities offered to an animal by the environment with reference to the individual’s action capabilities. For example, a leaf provides support for a wasp but not for a dog. Here, the support-ability of the leaf is an affordance for the wasp. Affordances can vary not only between species but also between the individuals of the same species. A 30-cm stair is climb-able for an adult but not for a child. In sum, affordances are neither objective nor subjective, but both. They are objective because they exist independently of the act of perception. But, they are also subjective because the frame of reference is the individual’s action capabilities. 
Gibson also assumed that affordance perception does not need information processing or internal representations. Rather, affordance perception is direct, corresponding to a learning process based on the extraction of invariants. An animal perceives walk-ability if it sees a flat, extended, rigid, horizontal surface, because this combination of invariants affords support.
Physical versus learned affordance (Norman, 2002) 
Norman was inspired by the dichotomy between the ventral system and the dorsal system and drew a close parallel between the functions of the dorsal system and affordances. Specifically, he stressed that some statements made by Gibson were somewhat equivocal. For example, Gibson (1979) wrote that: “the ‘values’ and ‘meanings’ of things in the environment can be directly perceived” or “postboxes afford letter mailing”. Norman (2002) proposed that only “physical affordances” are perceived by the dorsal system. So, in the aforementioned example of the postboxes, “it would be better to say that slot in the mailbox affords inserting an object of appropriate size and shape”. By contrast, the ventral system is in charge to assign meanings to things, and particularly to provide information about the conventional uses of familiar tools (i.e., familiar tool use). In this case, Norman suggested the notion of “learned affordance”. The physical versus learned affordance dichotomy mirrors the novel versus familiar tool use opposition, respectively. In this view, both types of affordances can contribute to tool use, even though the ability to perform familiar tool use might be one of the properties of the ventral system. Importantly, this dichotomy also implies that the perception of physical affordances (dorsal system) guides not only body actions within a hand-centered frame of reference (e.g., reaching, grasping) but also novel tool use, namely, actions involving a toolcentered frame of reference. We see a contradiction in Norman’s argument as he also suggested that the transformation of visual information into a tool-centered framework (called allocentric by Norman) is the specific function of the ventral system (i.e., learned affordance). By contrast, the dorsal system is responsible for the transformation of “visual information into an egocentric framework allowing the actor to grasp or otherwise bodily manipulate the object” 
Norman and Young (2006) have suggested that the perception of affordances – and more specifically of physical affordances for Norman – might be supported by the dorsal system. The same theoretical rapprochement may be envisaged between the dorsal system and the affordance route to action. Nevertheless, Yoon and Humphreys (2007) argued that such a rapprochement remains to be demonstrated, notably because of studies indicating that action decision tasks can activate the left inferior temporal lobe (i.e., the ventral system).[^neuro&behavior01affordance]

[^neuro&behavior01affordance]:Osiuraka, François, Yves Rossettic, and Arnaud Badet. "What is an affordance? 40 years later." Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, volume 77 (2017): pages 403-417.
