## Biometrics

Biometrics refers to the measurement and statistical analysis of people's unique physical and behavioral characteristics[^Gillis2021biometric].Biometric authentication is used to verify and identify the identity of an individual[^Das2015biometric]. This way of identification is often used in settings like the airport security, health care and law enforcement[^Gillis2021biometric]. There are two types of biometric technologies, which include physical and behavioral. The physical biometric technologies examining the unique features of our biological self, while the behavioral is related to our mannerisms[^Das2016biometric]. Examples of biometric technologies include fingerprint recognition, vein pattern recognition, hand geometry recognition, iris recognition, retinal recognition, facial recognition, keystroke recognition and signature recognition[^Das2015biometric].
Advantages of biometrics include being more difficult to fake or steal, easy and convenient to use, stays constant trough out one’s life and nontransferable[^Gillis2021biometric]. Despite that, biometrics system can be quite costly to keep running. If the system fails to properly register someone’s biometry data, this can lead to the system being unable to identifier the user (web). Other instances where the system wouldn’t be able to identify the user is if the user get injured[^Gillis2021biometric]. For example, if the user burns their hand there is a higher change the system will not be able to recognize their fingerprint. 

[^Das2015biometric]:Das, Ravindra. 2015. "Biometric Technology : Authentication, Biocryptography, and Cloud-Based Architecture". Boca Raton: CRC Press. https://doi.org/10.1201/b17640.
[^Das2016biometric]:Das, Ravindra. 2016. "Adopting Biometric Technology : Challenges and Solutions". Boca Raton: CRC Press. https://doi.org/10.1201/b19512. 
[^Gillis2021biometric]:Gillis, Alexander S., Peter Loshin, and Michael Cobb. 2021. “What Is Biometrics?” Security. https://www.techtarget.com/searchsecurity/definition/biometrics. 

 
