## Cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrency is a type of digital or virtual currency that uses cryptography for security. Unlike traditional currencies used by governments and centralized banks, the main idea is that cryptocurrencies attempt to operate on decentralized networks founded on blockchain technology. Cryptocurrencies rely on secure distributed ledger data structures; where mining is an integral part of Proof-of-Work systems. Mining requires the use of computer power to solve complex mathematical problems (encrypted transaction keys), validate transactions, and add them to the blockchain. A successful miner is rewarded with newly created cryptocurrency as an incentive.[^watorek21cryptocurrency] Other systems also exist such as Proof-of-Stake or PoS for short.[^mukhopadhyay16cryptocurrency] PoS relies on participants holding a certain amount of cryptocurrency to validate transactions and create new blocks, eliminating the need for intensive computational work. Cryptocurrency can typically be bought on trading exchanges such as Binance or Coinbase, but can also be bought and sold via peer-to-peer methods.[^wu21cryptocurrency] Digital currencies can also be stored on software-wallets and hardware-wallets. In most cases, the singular term cryptocurrency can mean a token. Some notable cryptocurrencies are Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Cardano. Any cryptocurrency that is not Bitcoin, is considered as an Altcoin. As the cryptocurrency landscape evolves, new projects, cryptocurrencies, altcoins, systems, and use cases are being implemented.

[^mukhopadhyay16cryptocurrency]: Mukhopadhyay, Ujan, Anthony Skjellum, Oluwakemi Hambolu, Jon Oakley, Lu Yu, and Richard Brooks. "A brief survey of cryptocurrency systems." In 2016 14th annual conference on privacy, security and trust (PST), pp. 745-752. IEEE, 2016.

[^watorek21cryptocurrency]: Watorek, M., Drożdż, S., Kwapień, J., Minati, L., Oświęcimka, P., & Stanuszek, M. (2021). Multiscale characteristics of the emerging global cryptocurrency market. Physics Reports, 901, 1-82.

[^wu21cryptocurrency]: Wu, Jiajing, Jieli Liu, Yijing Zhao, and Zibin Zheng. "Analysis of cryptocurrency transactions from a network perspective: An overview." Journal of Network and Computer Applications 190 (2021): 103139.
