## Facial Recognition

Facial recognition is a recognition system that utilizes biometrics to detect, analyze, and recognize faces.[^kaur20facial] The process can be broken down into three technologies: detection, analysis, and recognition. Detection infers the training of an algorithm to recognize faces; The detected faces are then mapped and converted into a “faceprint”.[^klosowski20facial] Finally, and most notably, faceprints are compared to individuals in a database to find their closest match.[^klosowski20facial] Face recognition is, defined by the IEEE, is an umbrella term capturing all "related technologies for building a face recognition system," including "face detection, face position, identity recognition, image preprocessing, etc"[^li20facial]. 

This software can be traced back to the 1960s. A system developed by Woodrow Wilson Bledsoe in which an "unknown face is compared against data points of previously entered pictures".[^klosowski20facial] As computers became more powerful, they began utilizing neural networks in the recognition process, resulting in the development of databases of faces. Such algorithms were predominantly trained on white males, thus leading to a higher rate of misidentification amongst BIPOC and female faces.[^klosowski20facial] Furthermore, facial recognition - notably its increasing use by governments - has given rise to security concerns, including the archiving of biometric information and images to build their databases.[^klosowski20facial]. Despite these worries, facial recognition has trickled into our day-to-day lives: face ID has become a vital and normalized feature of our mobile devices. Hence, this recognition technology and its increasing presence in our systems contributes to the growth of surveillance capitalism.


[^kaur20facial]: Kaur, Paramjit, Kewal Krishan, Suresh K Sharma, and Tanuj Kanchan. 2020. “Facial-Recognition Algorithms: A Literature Review.” Medicine, Science and the Law 60 (2): 131–39. https://doi.org/10.1177/0025802419893168.

[^klosowski20facial]: Klosowski, Thorin. “Facial Recognition Is Everywhere. Here’s What We Can Do about It.” The New York Times, July 15, 2020. https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/blog/how-facial-recognition-works/. 

[^li20facial]: Li, Lixiang, Xiaohui Mu, Siying Li, and Haipeng Peng. “A Review of Face Recognition Technology.” IEEE Access 8 (2020): 139110–20. https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.3011028. 
