# Interactivity:

Interactivity originates from the word “interaction”  which in itself is a word with a plethora of meanings depending on the situation it is being spoken about. It can be interaction between two people, interaction between one person and something like a computer or AI or it can be an interaction between a person and an object. This also extends to creatures and their interactions with things. Thus, interactivity when spoken about its influence on new media is the active participation of an individual and their actions to control a computer or video program for it to respond in the way they wish it to. With this human input, the computer gives an output that reflects what the input is and tries to find an appropriate response that corresponds to the program being used to get this response.[^jensen98interactivity] Interactivity is thus the interaction between human and computer to get an output that reflects the input. Interactivity is used on a daily basis no matter what program or website is being used, there is always a desired reaction and output that the individual working with the computer is looking for and through all the knowledge the computer already has, this interaction becomes a lot easier. Different websites and programs were built differently and thus require different interactions to work with them, thus if something within the computer is well done, the outputs from the input will be more accurate and easy to follow, while a program or website made less user-friendly is more likely to need more than just interaction and input to get the desired output.[^heeter13interactivity] 

An example of interactivity can be as simple as clicking the mouse button and for the computer to direct the cursor and click where the individual intended the action to be. But interactivity can also be seen when using a website that requires the individual to click on different tabs to get new layers of the website, or when there are user generated content like images, reviews and videos that the individual can click on and the computer may zoom in or send them to a new page to look into it further. Interactivity can also be used to create contacts and share things with others not only through the computer but the computer interacts with the input of the individual to send them the right information to create these new actions within a website or within a program.[^siemieniecka17interactivity] Therefore, any interactive media within a computer, such as a website and whatever content is within it, requires interactivity from the individual to the computer to get the correct outputs that make the media work for the individual.

[^jensen98interactivity]: Jensen, Jens F. 1998. “Tracking a New Concept in Media and Communication Studies,” *Nordicom Review* 19 (1): 185–204. https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1534605/FULLTEXT01.pdf.

[^heeter13interactivity]: Heeter, Carrie. 2013. “Interactivity in the Context of Designed Experiences.” *Journal of Interactive Advertising* 1 (1): 3–14. https://doi.org/10.1080/15252019.2000.10722040.

[^siemieniecka17interactivity]: Siemieniecka, Dorota, Wioletta Kwiatkowska, Kamila Majewska, and Małgorzata Skibińska. 2017. “The Potential of Interactive Media and Their Relevance in the Education Process.” *International Journal of Psycho-Educational Sciences* 6 (3): 1-10. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1254649.pdf.
