## MP3

An MP3 file, also known as Motion Picture Expert Group Audio Layer III, is a compressed digital audio file that uses a technology known as psychoacoustic masking to play music or sounds that can be shared and listened to repeatedly[^Stanford] (Stanford University, 2024). MP3s are considered a lossy file as the compression it undergoes is irreversible and some of the original file’s data was lost during the compression process. In addition, while the quality is still not like the original, MP3 music files often do have fairly high audio quality. The advantage of this compression is that it also reduces the size of the file itself. For example, an average MP3 file is around 3 MB, which is very low when comparing it to a lossless file type like a Waveform Audio file, or WAV, which is often 30 MB[^Gavin] (Gavin, 2018). In making these audio files smaller through a series of compressions, it makes it easier to exchange or share via the Internet and easier to save in a hard drive[^Sterne] (Sterne, 1997). Unfortunately, all of that compression does garner some disadvantages as well in exchange for some hard drive space. One of the main disadvantages being the loss of sound quality when being converted from a lossless file format, which happens because the compression removes parts of the audio that the human ear cannot hear. Fortunately, this often goes unnoticed by the public.

[^Gavin]:Gavin, Brady. 2018. “What Is an MP3 File (and How Do I Open One)?” How-to Geek. How-To Geek. August 7, 2018. https://www.howtogeek.com/361516/what-is-an-mp3-file-and-how-do-i-open-one/.

[^Stanford]:Stanford University. 2024. “MP3 vs the World.” Cs.stanford.edu. March 30, 2024. https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/cs201/projects/1999-00/dmca-2k/mp3.html.

[^Sterne]:Sterne, Jonathan. 1997. “The Mp3 as Cultural Artifact.” Burkart and McCourt 8. https://doi.org/10.1177/1461444806067737].
