## OS

An operating system, or better known as an OS, is a “program that acts as an interface between the computer user and computer hardware and controls the execution of programs”[^Wollongong] (University of Wollongong Australia, 2024). The OS’ job is to manage all the software ([Software](../main/glossary.md#Software)) and hardware of the device in order to perform basic tasks such as file, memory, and process management, essentially acting as an interface for the computer hardware and the user. There are three main types of operating systems that are widely known and used by the public, those being Microsoft Windows, Mac OS, and Linux[^GCFGlobal] (GCFGlobal, 2024). They’re all very similar for the most part, but also do have some unique characteristics. For example. Microsoft Windows is pre-downloaded on all devices except Apples devices, where Mac OS is already downloaded, and Linux does not come pre-downloaded but can be manually installed and is highly customizable. These operating systems also all use unique default browsers, Internet Explorer for Windows users, Safari for Mac users and Firefox for Linux users. As a result, these all work in different ways, but ultimately do the same thing to ensure your device runs smoothly and effectively[^Bazukiu] (Bazukiu et al. 2023, 16:161–77).

[^Bazukiu]:Bazukiu, Robert, Anaamotulim Anab, Seth Gyemerah, and Mohammed I. Daabo. 2023. An Overview of Computer Operating Systems and Emerging Trends. 4th ed. Vol. 16. Asian Journal of Research in Computer Science. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/374888061_An_Overview_of_Computer_Operating_Systems_and_Emerging_Trends.

[^GCFGlobal]:GCFGlobal. 2016. “Computer Basics: Understanding Operating Systems.” GCFGlobal.org. GCFGlobal. 2016. https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/computerbasics/understanding-operating-systems/1/.

[^Wollongong]:University of Wollongong Australia. 2024. “Understanding Operating Systems - University of Wollongong – UOW.” Www.uow.edu.au. 2024. https://www.uow.edu.au/student/support-services/academic-skills/online-resources/technology-and-software/operating-systems/.
