Quantum Computing is an emerging type of computing that utilizes principles of quantum mechanics to expedite certain processes and calculations, faster than classical computing. A key principle in the difference between quantum and classical computing is qubits. Like bits, a qubit can be in 2 states, a 0 or a 1. However, operating under quantum mechanics, a qubit can be in a third state called superposition. This essentially means that, before being measured, a qubit exists in the states of 0 and 1 simultaneously[^mcmahon08quantum]. This allows the quantum computers to process multiple calculations concurrently and sort databases with optimized algorithms which accelerates the processing speed. This function is called parallelism[^gruska99quantum]. 
Another quantum mechanic property that qubits posses is entanglement. This is the concept of two or more particles (or qubits) become entwined where the state of one particle determines the state of the other particle (and vice-versa) regardless of distance[^rieffel00introduction]. This principle permits qubits to execute specific quantum algorithms that enhance information processing as well as perform parallelism tasks instantly through intertwined qubits. These operations of the qubits are all manipulated through quantum gates, which are the foundational element of quantum computing[^mcmahon08quantum]. Sequences quantum gates are used to create quantum circuits, which are representations of quantum algorithms. 
While the potential of quantum computers is immense and exciting, the practicality of these computers is lacking. To construct this machine, it requires an immense amount of cooling to maintain the superconducting capabilities of the materials. Specifically, about a hundredth of a degree above absolute zero[^ibm24quantum]. This requires super-cooling fluids which cost a lot of money and make these machines inaccessible to regular people and exclusive to companies who have the space and funds. 

[^gruska99quantum]: Gruska, Jozef. Quantum computing. London: McGraw-Hill, 1999. 
[^mcmahon08quantum]: McMahon, David. Quantum Computing explained. Hoboken New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2008. 
[^rieffel00introduction]: Rieffel, Eleanor, and Wolfgang Polak. “An Introduction to Quantum Computing for Non-Physicists.” ACM Computing Surveys 32, no. 3 (September 2000): 300–335. https://doi.org/10.1145/367701.367709. 
[^ibm24quantum]: “What Is Quantum Computing?” IBM. Accessed January 29, 2024. https://www.ibm.com/topics/quantum-computing#:~:text=Two%20superconductors%20placed%20on%20either,insulator%20form%20a%20Josephson%20junction.&text=Our%20quantum%20computers%20use%20Josephson,individual%20units%20of%20quantum%20information. 
